[Music]
what lies west of Westeros Arya Stark
ventured out into the wild sea to find
out for millions of years humans have
been exploring and as they pushed
further and further they began
exchanging knowledge of the places
they'd been - expanding the boundaries
of the world as we knew it our world map
was finally complete in the 1820s with
the discovery of Antarctica but why stop
at the end of the earth or the moon
what's the farthest week ago well let's
find out despite all our advancements
for a very long time the farthest man
could travel was restricted to distances
on the earth in April of 1961 that all
changed when humanity became a
spacefaring species the Russian
cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin was the first man
in space he blasted into orbit on a 108
minute flight high above the earth the
Americans followed a few months later in
1969 the Apollo 11 mission landed the
first two men on the moon no other
statement could have truly represented
the significance of this event than that
of commander Neil Armstrong who
described it as one small step for a man
one giant leap for mankind
another great feat was achieved the next
year in April 1970 when the crew of
NASA's Apollo 13 swung wide around the
far side of the moon at an altitude of
158 miles putting them 240 8655 miles
away from Earth it's the farthest our
species has ever been from our home
planet but it's certainly not the
farthest that we know about in fact it's
mankind's insatiable quest to know
things far beyond what we can see with
their naked eyes that's led to so many
scientific advancements to look at the
tiniest we developed microscopes and to
look beyond our world
we designed powerful telescopes thanks
to these advancements the edge of our
map extended far beyond our solar system
yet till the 1900s we still thought that
our Milky Way galaxy was the entire
universe but not ready to give up humans
kept exploring in the hope that maybe
there's something beyond the Milky Way
as well at this point astronomers
noticed that some stars were dimmer than
others why they asked themselves where
they dimmer because they were smaller or
because they were farther away the
answer came from an astronomer named
Henrietta Swan Leavitt
leaveit had studied thousands of
variable stars stars whose brightness as
seen from Earth fluctuates she found
that if certain stars known as Cepheid
variables pulsate at the same rate they
have the same brightness
this discovery proved to be a milestone
in measuring the distance of stars and
galaxies since it provided a yardstick
to correlate brightness to distance
think of it this way if two Cepheid
variables are pulsating at the same rate
but one is dimmer than the other it
would mean that the dimmer star is
farther away from the brighter star
since we already knew the actual
distances of some of these stars
scientists could now determine the
distance to other stars simply by
comparing its known luminosity to its
observed brightness around this time
work was also going on to install the
hooker telescope at Mount Wilson
Observatory in California this would be
the world's largest telescope from 1917
to 1949 astronomer Edwin Hubble arrived
at this observatory in 1919 yes you
guessed it right the Hubble telescope is
named in his honor
using the hooker telescope Hubble
identified Cepheid variables in several
galaxies including the Andromeda nebula
and Triangulum using misses leave its
findings he calculated and found that
these bright objects far away from the
Milky Way were in fact galaxies outside
our own Andromeda is in fact the
farthest object we can see with our
naked eyes on a dark clear night
now we knew that the Milky Way was not
the boundary of the universe the
universe extended far beyond it to look
that far out now we have telescopes in
space just like the Hubble Space
Telescope but the Hubble telescope is
not the first space telescope that
credit goes to the orbiting astronomical
observatory to rightly named the
stargazer using these telescopes we've
seen stars and galaxies far away the
enormous blue star named Icarus is the
farthest individual star we've seen to
date
normally it would have been too faint to
view even with the largest and most
powerful telescopes but it appears that
nature wanted us to have a look at it it
was because of a quirk of nature that
the stars feeble glow got tremendously
amplified astronomers using NASA's
Hubble Space Telescope were therefore
able to pinpoint this star and set a new
distance record it's so far away that
it's light took nine billion years to
reach Earth the farthest galaxies
observed is named EGS z s 8-1 the light
from it took 13.1 billion years to reach
us this means that what we see of this
galaxy today is actually the galaxy
thirteen point one billion years ago
long before the earth or even our Sun
came into existence as a matter of fact
the universe is thought to be about 13.8
billion years old so galaxies EGS Z s
8-1 is also one of the earliest galaxies
to have formed in the cosmos according
to researchers at Yale there are
probably galaxies that are even farther
away yet another fascinating aspect of
the universe is that its size is not
fixed instead it's always expanding and
the farther an object is from us the
faster it's moving away from us so by
the time light from a faraway galaxy
reaches us it's actually moved away a
galaxy like the EGS Z s 8-1 which really
needs a nickname or something shorter
when it emitted its light well
13.8 billion light-years away from us
and it has been constantly moving away
since then according to some complex
calculations that galaxy is about 32
billion light-years away from us now
while the star Icarus is fourteen point
four billion light-years away at this
time the observable universe
meaning the area that can be observed
from Earth or its space-based telescopes
is 93 billion light years in diameter
the expanding universe Theory also means
that there's a point in the universe
where things are moving away from us at
a speed faster than the speed of light
a point beyond which given our current
scientific knowledge and technology we
can't look into this is a place from
where light can never reach us this
means no one really knows what lies
farthest from us or how big our universe
really is some say that the universe is
edgeless while others believe in a
multiverse hypothesis to be honest I
don't know which of these two is true or
if any of these is true and scientists
also can't know for sure but we're still
inquisitive just like our seafaring
ancestors were and if time has taught us
anything we can be sure that one day in
the future we'll look far beyond what we
can see today okay now that we've talked
a lot about huge astronomical distances
it would only be normal for you to be
wondering what's the farthest that any
of the objects we keep hurling into
space have reached so far well here's
the answer the space probe Voyager 1
launched by NASA in September 1977 is
the man-made object that has traveled
the farthest and is still continuing its
journey as of June 3rd 2019 in a period
of over 41 years it's traveled a
distance of 13.5 billion miles and
receives routine commands to transmit
dated earth apart from the various
scientific equipment it carries to
conduct its research and communicate
with earth the probe also carries a
gold-plated audio-visual disk to
initiate communication with intelligent
life-forms from other planetary systems
or to at least make them know that we
exist the disk carries photos of the
earth and its life-forms a range of
scientific information spoken greetings
from people such as the
secretary-general of the United Nations
and the President of the United States
and a medley sounds of Earth that
includes the sounds of whales a baby
crying waves breaking on a shore and a
collection of music I sure hope they
like Chuck Berry wait a minute who
doesn't like Johnny be good now do you
think intelligent life-forms exist in
the universe will they be able to find
the probe and understand the content of
the golden disk let me know down in the
comments if you learn something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend but hey don't go
away many light-years just yet we have
over 2000 cool videos for you to check
out all you have to do is pick the left
or right video click on it and enjoy
stay on the bright side of life